A messaging app built as part of my React Native bootcamp using the book **Fullstack React Native: The Complete Guide to React Native**. The book is fantastic: get is at https://www.fullstackreact.com/react-native/#  This project is described in the *Core APIs* chapter and introduces the NetInfo, Dimensions, CameraRoll, and PixelRatio APIs.  It also uses navigator.geolocation.getCurrentPosition() and MapView to create and display location messages.  A Grid component is built based on FlatList to display selectable images from the CameraRoll in a grid.  New text messages are entered in a TextInput component where again the parent of the TextInput keeps an up-to-date version of the value of the TextInput and passes it up to its parent when the new text has been submitted. 

The keyboard handling was particularly complex.  Three nested components were used to handle the complexity:

1) **MeasureLayout**: this mounted a View with flex:1 and called the method passed with the onLayout property to update its layout state.  The children prop of this component is a function which takes the layout table as a parameter
2) **KeyboardState**: receives layout from its parent, MeasureLayout, and keeps track of whether the keyboard is visible or not and whether or not it will show or hide in its state.  This info (along with the layout info ) is passed to its only child, a function.  This function calls the last component,
3) **MessagingContainer**: this container adjusts its size with animation depending on the layout and visibility of an input method (custom, i.e. the image picker, or keyboard) and inside that container renders the MessageList and Toolbar components.
